Here’s what I think we should do in terms of QA/QC. Let me know what you think (or any other ideas you might have).
I’ll talk to Lee to see if Sumathy, Houbao, or Stephen could do it.

(1)	Spring and fall frost dates:
    a.	Compare selected weather grid results with NOAA US Climate Normals Freeze/Frost Data
        i.	Select a grid that matches a station in a handful of states (cross-section; for instance: CA central Valley,
        WA, TX, GA, VA, PA, NY, MI). The attached file (freeze-list.pdf) has a list of the NOAA climate station names.
        I thought at first we could use the lat/long in that table to help match up, but I don’t think it is in the same
        units).
        ii.	Compare our date estimates to their estimates for 50% probability for 32F for both Spring and Fall dates
        iii.	This leads me to a question: Did you pull out the freeze dates for spring and fall from 2015 (the year
        listed in the table) or did you derive the 50% probability from the range of weather years? If it’s a single
        year, we may have to go back into another set of data to find the dates for a single year.

    b.	Link the frost dates to the weather grid shapefile and generate a map of spring and fall frost dates across the
    country
        i.	The idea here is (a) to see whether there are any individual weather stations that jump out as completely
        different from the cells around it and (b) to see whether we see a similar pattern to national maps.
        Here’s a link to a couple of maps based on NOAA median dates:
        https://www.botanicalinterests.com/product/Frost-Maps
        ii.	It doesn’t have to be perfect – I’m not sure if you generated dates for all of the grids (I think you
        covered the states with orchards, so that’s fine)
        iii.	Another option for comparison is to look at the growing season length (the time between the spring and
        fall frosts).


(2)	GDD estimates:
    a.	Compare our GDD dates to those generated by the Oregon State online GDD model
    (http://uspest.org/cgi-bin/ddmodel.us) BEAD used in the original crop dates methodology paper and/or the UC Davis
    model (http://fruitsandnuts.ucdavis.edu/Weather_Services/Chill_Calculators/?type=harvest) BEAD referenced in the
    GDD paper.
    b.	I am a little concerned about some of the early date estimates (Jan-Feb) for emergence and max canopy cover for
    ome orchard crops in the southern-most states (FL, tX). Those may not ultimately play out in the final product.
    For instance, we don’t have cherries in those southern states. We may need to take a look at those early-season
    dates and run them by BEAD to see whether that makes sense or if we need to take something else into account.

And that reminds me: I haven’t sent over a list of deciduous orchard crops/states like I’ve done for the other crops,
mostly because we don’t have dates for them. However, it may make sense to send over the list as I have it
(even without dates) so we know what the universe of combinations we’re covering. I’ll work on pulling that together
and try to send it to you tomorrow.

Nelson

Yeah, I looked it over briefly but got swamped with other things.

I think the freeze dates method sounds good and pretty easy to do, I could probably knock it out in a few minutes by myself.  I took the freeze date probabilities from the range of years 2013-2018. I think it says 2015 in the table because that’s the mean (or median, either way).

Since we’re aggregating all deciduous orchards into a single class, we may have to think of a creative way to exclude things like Florida cherries from the selection of a single date.  It may be reasonably easy to do an area-weighting – count up the number of pixels for each of the constituent CDL classes, and weight the classes accordingly to get an average date.  That way, even if there are one or two pixels of cherries in Florida, they won’t move the average much compared to peaches or whatever deciduous orchards actually do exist there.  This could be done without any GIS, just using the ‘summary’ tables that go with the selected scenarios, so it should also be fairly easy.

Maybe the best thing is for me to take a stab at setting both of these up tomorrow morning – I can either knock them out myself, or come up with a method that we can assign to Stephen, Sumathy, or Houbao to complete.
